---
layout: post
title:  "untitled"
date: 2014-06-29 21:12
categories: yoga
---

I haven't been much of a yogi. A few classes here, a few classes there, a couple weeks at [Arrichion](/arrichion.com) where it was a major accomplishment to just get through a class and I always left feeling like the biggest badass in town. During any class, I'd always find two or three or ten poses that I was better at than my general fitness level might indicate. My balance had always been pretty good, so that helped. And for the poses that weren't so easy, there were gentle encouragments and adaptations, adjustments and yoga blocks.

A few months ago, I decided I had had it with feeling lazy and out of shape all the time. I started [running](http://www.coolrunning.com/engine/2/2_3/181.shtml), an activity I (as a slow kid) always hated in grade school gym class. But I was still high on the thrill of having landed a Real Live Development Job and thought: gosh, what else can I do? Just because I want to, just because it's there to be done, just because I'm an adult and can decide what I'm going to do and then go do it? At the same time, even though I might have preferred to take up swimming again (which I've done many more hours of than yoga and running combined), I was pragmatic: what I really wanted to do was exercise, and there are dozens of logistical obstacles involved in getting access to a pool. The street, on the other hand, is literally right outside my front door.

Maybe a week or two after I started running, I started going to [weekly community Crossfit workouts](http://crossfitdurham.com/get-started/). The local Crosfitters work out right between my [favorite coffee shop](/cocoacinnamon.com) and my [favorite brewery](/fullsteam.ag), and in sight of both. Swinging kettle bells and jumping on boxes and rolling giant tires up and down the street looked like an awfully fun way to work out. And it was! Plus, sprinting 200 yards while carrying a 25 pound plate seemed potentially more useful (what if I needed to rescue a toddler from a burning building?!) than trotting around my neighborhood (still the slowest, still going to be the one to get eaten by zombies.) But after having trouble getting in and out of my car on three consecutive Sunday mornings following three consecutive Saturday workouts, I decided to spend a while doing squats and pushups in the comfort of my living room, and in more modest quantity.

Finally summer came and I started being able to go to the weekly open yoga class at aforementioned favorite brewery. I'd been only once before, on one of the Sunday mornings when I couldn't get out of my car, and I thought: Surely it's going to be scads better than THAT time.

It wasn't scads better.  It was a little better, certainly substantially less miserable, but sometime in the year or so that'd passed since Arrichion, I'd become truly awful at yoga. My awesome balance had been replaced by screaming pain in the soles of my feet. The few flexible joints I'd always had felt rusty, and I couldn't do anything awesome without some other joint stopping me. But the thing that made me feel worst was the sense that I no longer knew intuitively how my own body worked and interacted with itself and constants like gravity and the floor. Yoga class had always been full of pleasant surprises, discovering I could do more than I thought I could.

Not this time.

But -- unlike doing pushups in my living room, 
