---
layout: post
title: "Codex"
date: 2015-05-06 23:40:19 
categories: journal
---

Today I learned that Bill Gates owns a book called the Codex Leicester, which (it seems) is basically a Moleskine that used to belong to da Vinci. 

Today I noticed a quality that maybe leaves your life when you grow up -- the sense that anything might happen, that you might *actually* turn out to be a princess or an astronaut or the best singer who ever lived, and you'd wake up one morning and suddenly everything would be wonderful forever. 

I still think things are pretty wonderful. But change looks more gradual. Rarely does everything change overnight. Sometimes things become less wonderful. 

Then I went to throw something away, and saw in the trash a box of butter cookies from Christmas. Not this past Christmas, either. I'd kept them and kept them because you never know when you'll suddenly start having guests for afternoon tea (or having it yourself!) and surely any guests who visited me wouldn't care whether the cookies were seasonal or even a bit old, but would love to have some butter cookies, with pretty colorful sugar sprinkled on top, with their tea. Wouldn't you be delighted to have tea and butter cookies? I certainly would. In fact, I'd find it so delightful that the possibility of being without butter cookies kept me from ever eating them. 

It turns out I still believe anything might happen. 

Perhaps I'm more practical now and realize that the appropriate response to 'anything might happen' is 'so you better be prepared, because you are AN ADULT'. Not that I think hanging on to years-old butter cookies is a good way to go about this. I want to say 'But thoughtful preparation makes a nest for wonderful things to happen!' I'm not sure that's true. I think thoughtful preparation makes a nest for the things you prepared for. Not to mention that 'thoughtful' is not an appropriate modifier for the situation.

This is not supposed to be a monologue about cookie hoarding, but about what I wanted to do with this new thing I'd figured out. My first instinct was to see if the one friend who I still subject to the Big Revelations I thought I'd have outgrown by now was online. Our big revelations aren't written in notebooks anymore, but in instant message windows. 

I am uncertain as I write this. Frankly, I'm not sure how I feel about going on record as having had any kind of opinion about anything. I'm downright chilly on the notion that these thoughts are particularly worth preserving. But it is a brave thing, to admit that you are in love, to let your eyes fill with tears, to not always be jaded in public. It is the same kind of bravery that admits: maybe these thoughts deserve the beauty that comes with being written down.
